---
description: SPARC tools publishes the standard ruleset in combat robotics.
coverY: 0
layout:
  cover:
    visible: true
    size: hero
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: true
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# Robot Rules

## SPARC Ruleset

[SPARC](https://sparc.tools/) or "Standardized Procedures for the Advancement of Robot Combat" is a community supported, standard set of rules for both builders and event organizers.&#x20;



We're mostly interested in the **SPARC Robot Construction Specifications.** The rules go over weight classes, weight bonuses, banned weapons (flamethrowers, explosives, EMPs, etc.), and other important Do's and Don'ts when making a robot.

## Ruleset Summary:

{% hint style="danger" %}
Please read the full manual as this summary is not complete and may be out of date. Additionally, some events may have special rules or exemptions, so make sure to check with the event you want to compete in.
{% endhint %}

### Plastic Class Rules

Specific rules for the plastic class are listed in the PDF. Notable ones are:

* Robots must be made of PLA, ABS, or PETG
* Non plastic parts such as motors, axles, and fasteners can be any material but can't be used in a way to enhance the structural integrity of the robot or used as armor.
* In general, wheels can be any material as long as their hub is an allowed material (ie. rubber lego tires over a printed hub)

### Safety

Safety is the most important thing in combat robotics. While there is some inherent risk with fighting deadly robots, there are lots of ways we mitigate risk. Handle robots with care and treat them as deadly machines, because they are.

* Safety inspections: A robot must pass a safety check where a builder discloses all operating principles and potential dangers to the event staff
* Robots must **only be active** in the arena and designated testing areas
* All robots must be able to be fully powered down by a **power switch** or link
* Weapon locks: A weapon lock on any moving weapon that can cause damage or injury is required to be in place at all times when not in the arena. Weapon locks must be clearly visible

### Forbidden Weapons and Materials

Forbidden weapons and materials in all weight classes include:

* Weapons designed to cause invisible damage to the other robot. This includes:
  * Electrical weapons
  * RF jamming equipment
  * RF noise generated by an internal combustion engine
  * EMF fields from permanent or electromagnets that affect another robot's electronics
  * Entangling weapons (no nets, tapes, string, etc.)
* Liquid weapons
* Light or smoke that impairs the view of the robots
* Heat and fire weapons
* Hazardous materials where they may contact humans

